README.md, before:

# viteyss

Wrapper for mnodehttp. Extracting yssplugin and serve it in Vite! To serv **yss**


<img title="viteyss" src="/icons/ico_viteyss_128.png" alt="viteyss_logo" data-align="inline"><img title="viteyss" src="/icons/vite.svg" alt="viteyss_logo" data-align="inline" width="128">



## configuration

Check **./startItAsDev.js** named `config0`
More on configurations go to [mnodehttp Readme ...](https://github.com/yOyOeK1/mnodehttp/blob/main/README.md)


## for whac it's

viteyss is moving **yss** project to more current era of hosting solutions, posibility upgrade, access to all stack of **nodejs** enviroment and so much more ...
So your project **site** have no restrictions, fast to deploy new concept


## installation

Depend on your situation.


#### stand alone instance

in terminal in your projects directory

```bash
git clone git clone https://github.com/yOyOeK1/viteyss.git
cd viteyss
npm install
npm i https://github.com/yOyOeK1/mnodehttp/blob/main/mnodehttp-latest.tgz
```


## start it / run it / use it

in terminal in project directory run `npm run startItAsDev` after this you will see in logs info`s:
- adress to get **http**
- ports
- other ...


So if all is looking good in terminal. No errors. Then in yours webbroser of choice enter **http://localhost:8080/yss/index.html** there is a **yss** :)

Look for more info in on sites, project direction, ... on wiki at 
**http://localhost:8080/yss/index.html#pageByName=Wiki*** You are serving it.


Hawe fun !




---

If you see that this makes sense [ send me a ☕ ](https://ko-fi.com/B0B0DFYGS) | [Master repository](https://github.com/yOyOeK1/oiyshTerminal) | [About SvOiysh](https://www.youtube.com/@svoiysh)

Commit message:

fixing and futures - new websocket stack read more in site-xdoc.md

README.md, after:

# viteyss

Wrapper for mnodehttp. Extracting yssplugin and serve it in Vite! To serv **yss**


<img title="viteyss" src="/icons/ico_viteyss_128.png" alt="viteyss_logo" data-align="inline"><img title="viteyss" src="/icons/vite.svg" alt="viteyss_logo" data-align="inline" width="128">



## configuration

Check **./startItAsDev.js** named `config0`
More on configurations go to [mnodehttp Readme ...](https://github.com/yOyOeK1/mnodehttp/blob/main/README.md)


## for what it's

viteyss is moving **yss** project to more current era of hosting solutions, posibility upgrade, access to all stack of **nodejs** enviroment and so much more ...
So your project **site** have no restrictions, fast to deploy new concept


## installation

Depend on your situation.


#### stand alone instance

in terminal in your projects directory

```bash
git clone git clone https://github.com/yOyOeK1/viteyss.git
cd viteyss
npm install
npm i https://github.com/yOyOeK1/mnodehttp/blob/main/mnodehttp-latest.tgz
```


## start it / run it / use it

in terminal in project directory run `npm run startItAsDev` after this you will see in logs info`s:
- adress to get **http**
- ports
- other ...


So if all is looking good in terminal. No errors. Then in yours webbroser of choice enter **http://localhost:8080/yss/index.html** there is a **yss** :)

Look for more info in on sites, project direction, ... on wiki at 
**http://localhost:8080/yss/index.html#pageByName=Wiki** You are serving it.

Or 

If you only want to read go to [wikiSites/viteyss.md](wikiSites/viteyss.md)


Hawe fun !




---

If you see that this makes sense [ send me a ☕ ](https://ko-fi.com/B0B0DFYGS) | [Master repository](https://github.com/yOyOeK1/oiyshTerminal) | [About SvOiysh](https://www.youtube.com/@svoiysh)
